Answers Explanation

 1.sql, write a SQL query to list the names of all songs  the database.
Your query should output a table with a sgle column for the name of each song.

SELECT NAME from songs;

First question is straight forward stating the header Name using Select will get the name for each song in the songs table

 2.sql, write a SQL query to list the names of all songs  creasg order of tempo.
Your query should output a table with a sgle column for the name of each song.

SELECT NAME from songs ORDER BY tempo;

The ORDER BY tag will list the names of the songs in increasing order based on the tempo


 3.sql, write a SQL query to list the names of the top 5 longest songs,  descendg order of length.
Your query should output a table with a sgle column for the name of each song.

SELECT name FROM songs ORDER BY duration_ms DESC LIMIT 5;

The ORDER BY tag duration will select the top 5 longest songs, the DESC tag will list it in descending order.
The LIMIT tag will limit it to just 5 queries

 4.sql, write a SQL query that lists the names of any songs that have danceability, energy, and valence greater than 0.75.
Your query should output a table with a sgle column for the name of each song.

SELECT NAME from songs WHERE danceability > 0.75 AND energy > 0.75 AND valence > 0.75;

Simply do a simple select statement and use the WHERE tag to check if each header is greater than 0.75

 5.sql, write a SQL query that returns the average energy of all the songs.
Your query should output a table with a sgle column and a sgle row contag the average energy.

SELECT AVG(energy) FROM songs;

Simply use a select statement followed by the AVG() tag to get the average energy for the songs table

 6.sql, write a SQL query that lists the names of songs that are by Post Malone.
Your query should output a table with a sgle column for the name of each song.
You should not make any assumptions about what Post Malone’s artist_id is.

SELECT songs.name
FROM songs
JOIN artists ON songs.artist_id = artists.id
WHERE artists.name = 'Post Malone';


A JOIN tag is used on the artist_id as they are the key pair header for the song table and artist table.
By joining the two tables we can filter the songs by artist name in this case songs by artist 'Post Malone'.



 7.sql, write a SQL query that returns the average energy of songs that are by Drake.
Your query should output a table with a sgle column and a sgle row contag the average energy.
You should not make any assumptions about what Drake’s artist_id is.

SELECT AVG(songs.energy)
FROM songs
JOIN artists ON songs.artist_id = artists.id
WHERE artists.name = 'Drake';

Similar solution to question 6 still joining both tables of songs and artists with common key pair of id and using AVG() to get the average
energy of songs by Drake

 8.sql, write a SQL query that lists the names of the songs that feature other artists.
Songs that feature other artists will clude “feat.”  the name of the song.
Your query should output a table with a sgle column for the name of each song.

SELECT name
FROM songs
WHERE name LIKE '%feat.%';


The Like Statement will filter names that are similar to '%feat.%'. The "%' tags basically means any text before and after the substring "feat.".
